# Windmill Push Example

This repo demonstrates how to push definitions from GitHub to Windmill
automatically.

See also
[backup example](https://github.com/windmill-labs/windmill-backup-example) and
[sync example](https://github.com/windmill-labs/windmill-sync-example).

## Setup

Write access to the workspace is required. This is done using an access token.
To generate a new token log into your windmill instance
(https://app.windmill.dev/ for cloud hosted instances) and navigate to the
account settings, which contains a "Tokens" section, use the relevant button
there to generate a new token. Note that you will only be able to copy this
token once!

![](./img/account-settings.png) ![](./img/tokens.png)

Add an environment "windmill" to the repository via the settings. You may name
this anything, but will need to adjust the workflow accordingly. Then add a
secret "WMILL_TOKEN" to this environment.

![](./img/gh-environment.png#gh-dark-mode-only)
![](./img/gh-environment-light.png#gh-light-mode-only)

Edit the workflow in
[.github/workflows/push.yaml](./.github/workflows/push.yaml), usually you'll
only need to fill out the `env` variables, then activate GitHub actions by
navigating to the "Actions" tab in GitHub. You may want to run the action once
manually to see that everything works, in the future the action will be
automatically ran on a schedule.

![](./img/configure.png#gh-dark-mode-only)
![](./img/configure-light.png#gh-light-mode-only)

### Security

In some cases it may be useful to take extra care, especially when users have
access to the automated repo that do not have write access to the repository. To
do so, create a separate account that can only access this specific
workspacewith write access and use a token issued using this account. This can
be done using the UI or the
[wmill cli](https://github.com/windmill-labs/windmill/blob/main/cli/README.md).

It may additionally be useful to restrict the GitHub environment.
[The GitHub help article](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/targeting-different-environments/using-environments-for-deployment)
goes into detail of all the options.
